This repository is meant to provide examples for the Mathemathical Methods courses of the Master in Physics of the Universe: Cosmology, Astrophysics, Particles and Astroparticles:

One example as been added so far Iodide, which consists of different tools to perform the simulation and analysis of a scintillator detector, it requires REST-for-Physics software to be installed. The different items are briefly described below:

 - launchSim.sh: Shell scrip to launch the simulations, different environmental variables can be defined there such as SCINTILLATOR_MATERIAL, GENERATOR, NEVENTS, while it also provide tools to visualize de geometry. Usage `bash launchSim.sh [singleGamma, multipleGamma, viewGeometry]`, one parameter is required to launch single gamma simulation, multiple gamma simulations or to visualize the geometry. For simulations this script call `restG4 -c iodide.rml`
 - iodide.rml: Configuration file to lauch the simulations. Different generators are defined such as: CalibrationGamma (source close to the detector), CalibrationEu152 (source 25 cm away of the detector), Detector (intrinsic contamination) and EnvironmentalGamma (spere with 1 m radius surrounding the detector). The geometry is retreived from the `geomtetry` folder.
 - geometry: This folder contains different configuration files for gdml geometry and materials for the simulations. Current geomtetry consists of a cylinder with the scintillator material surrounded by an aluminum cover.
 - Geant4ToSignal.C: This macro is used to convert the energy deposits from the simulations in pulses with a minimal analysis. The output is a `TRestRun` file which includes `TRestGeant4Event`, `TRestRawSignalEvent` and some observables in the `AnalysisTree`
 - getEfficiency.C: This macro is used to retreive the results of the simulations after the analysis such as the detection efficiency for the different gammas, it also provides examples on how to merge diferent spectra taking into account the branching ratio.
 - viewGeometry.C: This macro is meant to visualize the geometry and it is called from the shell script `launchSim.sh` in general it should be launched from inside the script where the different environmental variables are defined.
